README.md, before:

<h1 align="center">Milestone Project 4 - The Hangar</h1>

![Hangar Mockup](static/images/project/)

[Click here to view the live project :link:](https://)

The Hangar is a project for an Aircraft Model Store e-commerce website.

# Table Of Contents

1. [User Experience (UX)](#user-experience)
    - [User stories](#user-stories)
    - [Design](#design)
    - [Wireframes](#wireframes)
    - [MongoDB Database](#mongodb-database)
2. [Features](#features)
3. [Technologies Used](#technologies-used)
4.  [Languages Used](#languages-used)
5.  [Frameworks, Libraries & Programs Used](#frameworks-libraries-and-programs-used)
6.  [Testing](#testing)
    - [Testing User Stories](#testing-user-stories)
    - [Additional Testing](#additional-testing)
    - [Bugs and Fixes](#bugs-and-fixes)
7. [Deployment](#deployment)
    - [GitHub](#github-pages)
    - [Heroku](#heroku)
8. [Credits](#credits)
    - [Code](#code)
    - [Content](#content)
    - [Media](#media)
    - [Acknowledgements](#acknowledgements)

# User Experience



-   ## User stories

    -   ### First Time Visitor Goals
        1. As a First Time user, I want to 
        2. As a First Time user, I want to 
        3. As a First Time user, I want to 


    -   ### Returning Visitor Goals
        1. As a Returning user, I want to 
        2. As a Returning user, I want to 
        3. As a Returning user, I want to 
        4. As a Returning user, I want to 
    
    - ### Frequent Visitor Goals
        1. As a Frequent user, I want to 
        2. As a Frequent user, I want to 
        3. As a Frequent user, I want to 
        4. As a Frequent user, I want to 

-   ## Design
    -   ### Colour Scheme

        - 

        - [Coolors](https://coolors.co/) was used to choose the color palette.

        - The main colors used were: 

        ![Color Palette](static/images/project/)

    -   ### Typography

        - 

        - The font was imported from [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com/)


*   ## Wireframes

    - The wireframe was developed using [balsamiq](https://balsamiq.com/).

    - Wireframe - [View](https://github.com/MatSim91/)

    - Wireframe - [View](https://github.com/MatSim91/)

# Features

- **A** - Users can

- **A** - Users can 

- **A** - Users can 

- **A** - Users can 

- **A** - Allow Users to 

- **A** - 

- **A** - 

- **A** - 

# Technologies Used

A brief overview of the languages, frameworks, and other tools I've used on this project:

- [HTML5](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTML5)
    - Semantic markup language as the shell of the site.

- [CSS3](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cascading_Style_Sheets)
    - Cascading Style Sheets as the design of the site.

- [Materialize:](https://materializecss.com/)
    - Loaded Materialize to provide all its pre-built classes, grid and classes functions.

- [JavaScript](https://www.javascript.com)
   - Used to add interactivity to the site.

- [Python](https://pt.wikipedia.org/wiki/Python)
    - Used to build the backend and render the pages.

# Languages Used

-   [HTML5](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTML5)
-   [CSS3](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cascading_Style_Sheets)
-   [JavaScript](https://pt.wikipedia.org/wiki/JavaScript)
-   [Python](https://pt.wikipedia.org/wiki/Python)

# Frameworks Libraries and Programs Used

1. [Materialize](https://materializecss.com/)
    - Materialize was used to assist with the responsiveness and styling of the website.

2. [JavaScript Validator](https://jshint.com)
    - Used to check and validate all JavaScript code to check for any typos or errors.

3. [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com/)
    - Google fonts was used to import the 

4. [Git](https://git-scm.com/)
    - Git was used for version control by utilizing the Gitpod terminal to commit to Git and Push to GitHub.

5. [GitHub](https://github.com/)
    - GitHub was used to store the projects code after being pushed from Git.

6. [Balsamiq](https://balsamiq.com/)
    - Balsamiq was used to create the [Wireframes](#wireframes) during the design process.

7. [Google Chrome DevTools](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/chrome-devtools)
    - Used for testing and fixing website bugs. Also used Google Lighthouse for performance testing.

8. [Google Icons](https://google.github.io/material-design-icons/#icon-font-for-the-web)
    - Google Icons was used on the site to improve visual design.

9. [JQuery](https://jquery.com/)
    - DOM manipulation to initiate the interactive functions from Materialize.

10. [Flask](https://flask.palletsprojects.com/en/2.0.x/)
    - Micro-framework.

11. [Jinja](https://www.palletsprojects.com/p/jinja/)
     -  Template engine for Python.

12. [Werkzeug](https://www.palletsprojects.com/p/werkzeug/)
    - Comprehensive Web Server Gateway Interface web application library.

13. [Heroku](https://www.heroku.com/)
    - Enabling this project to be build, run, and operate entirely in the cloud.

14. [MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.com/)
    -  NoSQL database used for the project.
# Testing



## Testing User Stories

-   ### First Time Visitor Goals
    1. As a first time user entering the site 
    2. As a first time user I can navigate via the 
    3. As a first time user I can see the 

-   ### Returning Visitor Goals
    1. As a returning user I can 
    2. As a returning user I can 
    3. As a returning user I can 
    4. As a returning user I can 

-   ### Frequent Visitor Goals
    1. As a return user I can 
    2. As a return user I can 
    3. As a return user I can 
    4. As a return user I can 

## Additional Testing

    All testing performed via 

-   ### Testing:

    1. When clicking on the

    2. Tested the 

    3. Tested the 

    4. Tested all the 

-   ### Testing :
    1. 
    
    2.  
        1.  When 
    
    3. Tested the 
        1.  
        2.  

-   ### Testing :
    1. Tested the 

    2. Tested the 

    3. Tested the 

-   ### Testing :
    1. Made sure when the 

    2. Tested that all the 

    3. Tested the 

    4. Tested the 

-   ### Testing :
    1. Added 

    2. Tested the required 

-   ### Testing :
    1. Tested the 

    2. Made sure the 

    3. Tested the 

-   ### Testing :
    1. Tested trying to 

    2. Tested the 

    3. Tested the 

    4. Tested required 

    5. Tested the 

-   ### Testing :
    1. Tested the 

    2. Tested the 

    3. Tested required 

    4. Tested the Link 

-   ### Testing :
    1. Made sure the 

    2. Tested the 

    3. Tested the 

## Bugs and Fixes

1. After adding the search functionality every time I was searching for anything it was displaying all the products.
	- 1.1 **Fix:** The indendation of both lines (lines followed below) was wrong. I have to remove one indendation level: 
    ```
            queries = Q(name__icontains=query) | Q(description__icontains=query)
            products = products.filter(queries)
    ```

2. 
    - 2.1 **Fix:** 

3.
    - 3.1 **Fix:** 

4. 
    - 4.1 **Fix:** 

5. 
    - 5.1: **Fix:** 

6. 
    - 6.1 **Fix:** 

7. 
   - 7.1 **Fix** 

# Deployment

## GitHub Pages 

**Under the repository page:**

    1. Click on Settings 
    2. Scroll down to the "GitHub Pages" section 
    3. Select the Source Branch 
    4. Click Save.

- For this project, I have used the cloud-based IDE [Gitpod](https://gitpod.io/) and [GitHub](http://github.com/) as a free git repository hosting.

    1. I started the project by creating a new Repository on GitHub and loading the [Code Institute Gitpod Template](https://github.com/Code-Institute-Org/gitpod-full-template).

    2. Installed the [Gitpod extension](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/gitpod-dev-environments-i/dodmmooeoklaejobgleioelladacbeki) and on my GitHub repo I clicked on the Gitpod button to create a new Master Workspace on GitPod.

    3. After creating the workspace I developed the website using Gitpod and pushing my commits to GitHub using the following commands:
        - `git add "file-name"` - To add a file for staging.
        - `git commit -m "description-of-update"` - To commit.
        - `git push` - To push my commits to GitHub
        - I have also used extra git commands such as: 
        - `python3 -m http.server` - To run a preview of the website on the browser.
        - `git status` - To display the current state of the working directory and the staging area.

## Heroku

- To deploy the app using Heroku, go through the following steps:

    1. Use pip3 freeze > `requirements.txt` to create a list of the dependencies.

    2. Create a `Procfile` by running this command on the CLI: `echo web: python app.py > Procfile`

    3. Run `git add .`, `git commit -m`, and `git push`, to push the project files to your GitHub repository.

    4. Navigate to Heroku, log in and create a new app by clicking on the 'New' and 'Create New App'. Enter your app name and select your region and create app.

    5. Under the 'Deploy' tab, select 'GitHub - Connect to GitHub'.
    
    6. Enter your repository's name in the input field, and connect once found.

    7. To set your environment variables navigate to the 'Settings' tab and scroll down to 'reveal config vars'

    8. Add the config vars:

    | Key | Value |
    |:---:|:-----:|
    | IP | 0.0.0.0 |
    | PORT | 5000 |
    | MONGO_DBNAME | `<database_name>` |
    | MONGO_URI | `` |
    | SECRET_KEY | `<Your secret Key>` |

    9. Navigate to the 'Deploy' tab. To enable automatic deployment, scroll down to the 'Automatic Deploys' section.

    10. Choose your GitHub branch and enable automatic deployment.


## Running locally

1. Go tho this [project repository](https://github.com/MatSim91/Milestone-Project-3-The-Compendium-of-scientists) in GitHub while signed in in your own GitHub account.
2. Click on the dropdown menu Code option.
3. Click on "Open with GitHub Desktop" to clone and open the repository locally.
4. Click on the "Choose" option and navigate to the local path where you want the cloned repository to be.
5. Click "Clone"

- [Click here](https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/desktop/contributing-and-collaborating-using-github-desktop/adding-and-cloning-repositories) for more cloning GitHub options.

# Credits

- [w](https://) -

- [W](https://) - 

- [C](https://) - 

- [M](https://) - 

- [G](https://) - 

- [G](https://) - 

## Code

- [M](https://) - 

- [w](https://) - 

## Content

-  The  details and descriptions of the products were taken from [Wikipedia](https://www.wikipedia.org/) and from [Revell](https://www.revell.de/).

## Media

-  The media for the  was taken from three different websites that sell Aircraft Models: [Revell](https://www.revell.de/).

## Acknowledgements

-

Commit message:

Update readme with search bug and fix

README.md, after:

<h1 align="center">Milestone Project 4 - The Hangar</h1>

![Hangar Mockup](static/images/project/)

[Click here to view the live project :link:](https://)

The Hangar is a project for an Aircraft Model Store e-commerce website.

# Table Of Contents

1. [User Experience (UX)](#user-experience)
    - [User stories](#user-stories)
    - [Design](#design)
    - [Wireframes](#wireframes)
    - [MongoDB Database](#mongodb-database)
2. [Features](#features)
3. [Technologies Used](#technologies-used)
4.  [Languages Used](#languages-used)
5.  [Frameworks, Libraries & Programs Used](#frameworks-libraries-and-programs-used)
6.  [Testing](#testing)
    - [Testing User Stories](#testing-user-stories)
    - [Additional Testing](#additional-testing)
    - [Bugs and Fixes](#bugs-and-fixes)
7. [Deployment](#deployment)
    - [GitHub](#github-pages)
    - [Heroku](#heroku)
8. [Credits](#credits)
    - [Code](#code)
    - [Content](#content)
    - [Media](#media)
    - [Acknowledgements](#acknowledgements)

# User Experience



-   ## User stories

    -   ### First Time Visitor Goals
        1. As a First Time user, I want to 
        2. As a First Time user, I want to 
        3. As a First Time user, I want to 


    -   ### Returning Visitor Goals
        1. As a Returning user, I want to 
        2. As a Returning user, I want to 
        3. As a Returning user, I want to 
        4. As a Returning user, I want to 
    
    - ### Frequent Visitor Goals
        1. As a Frequent user, I want to 
        2. As a Frequent user, I want to 
        3. As a Frequent user, I want to 
        4. As a Frequent user, I want to 

-   ## Design
    -   ### Colour Scheme

        - 

        - [Coolors](https://coolors.co/) was used to choose the color palette.

        - The main colors used were: 

        ![Color Palette](static/images/project/)

    -   ### Typography

        - 

        - The font was imported from [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com/)


*   ## Wireframes

    - The wireframe was developed using [balsamiq](https://balsamiq.com/).

    - Wireframe - [View](https://github.com/MatSim91/)

    - Wireframe - [View](https://github.com/MatSim91/)

# Features

- **A** - Users can

- **A** - Users can 

- **A** - Users can 

- **A** - Users can 

- **A** - Allow Users to 

- **A** - 

- **A** - 

- **A** - 

# Technologies Used

A brief overview of the languages, frameworks, and other tools I've used on this project:

- [HTML5](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTML5)
    - Semantic markup language as the shell of the site.

- [CSS3](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cascading_Style_Sheets)
    - Cascading Style Sheets as the design of the site.

- [Materialize:](https://materializecss.com/)
    - Loaded Materialize to provide all its pre-built classes, grid and classes functions.

- [JavaScript](https://www.javascript.com)
   - Used to add interactivity to the site.

- [Python](https://pt.wikipedia.org/wiki/Python)
    - Used to build the backend and render the pages.

# Languages Used

-   [HTML5](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTML5)
-   [CSS3](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cascading_Style_Sheets)
-   [JavaScript](https://pt.wikipedia.org/wiki/JavaScript)
-   [Python](https://pt.wikipedia.org/wiki/Python)

# Frameworks Libraries and Programs Used

1. [Materialize](https://materializecss.com/)
    - Materialize was used to assist with the responsiveness and styling of the website.

2. [JavaScript Validator](https://jshint.com)
    - Used to check and validate all JavaScript code to check for any typos or errors.

3. [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com/)
    - Google fonts was used to import the 

4. [Git](https://git-scm.com/)
    - Git was used for version control by utilizing the Gitpod terminal to commit to Git and Push to GitHub.

5. [GitHub](https://github.com/)
    - GitHub was used to store the projects code after being pushed from Git.

6. [Balsamiq](https://balsamiq.com/)
    - Balsamiq was used to create the [Wireframes](#wireframes) during the design process.

7. [Google Chrome DevTools](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/chrome-devtools)
    - Used for testing and fixing website bugs. Also used Google Lighthouse for performance testing.

8. [Google Icons](https://google.github.io/material-design-icons/#icon-font-for-the-web)
    - Google Icons was used on the site to improve visual design.

9. [JQuery](https://jquery.com/)
    - DOM manipulation to initiate the interactive functions from Materialize.

10. [Flask](https://flask.palletsprojects.com/en/2.0.x/)
    - Micro-framework.

11. [Jinja](https://www.palletsprojects.com/p/jinja/)
     -  Template engine for Python.

12. [Werkzeug](https://www.palletsprojects.com/p/werkzeug/)
    - Comprehensive Web Server Gateway Interface web application library.

13. [Heroku](https://www.heroku.com/)
    - Enabling this project to be build, run, and operate entirely in the cloud.

14. [MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.com/)
    -  NoSQL database used for the project.
# Testing



## Testing User Stories

-   ### First Time Visitor Goals
    1. As a first time user entering the site 
    2. As a first time user I can navigate via the 
    3. As a first time user I can see the 

-   ### Returning Visitor Goals
    1. As a returning user I can 
    2. As a returning user I can 
    3. As a returning user I can 
    4. As a returning user I can 

-   ### Frequent Visitor Goals
    1. As a return user I can 
    2. As a return user I can 
    3. As a return user I can 
    4. As a return user I can 

## Additional Testing

    All testing performed via 

-   ### Testing:

    1. When clicking on the

    2. Tested the 

    3. Tested the 

    4. Tested all the 

-   ### Testing :
    1. 
    
    2.  
        1.  When 
    
    3. Tested the 
        1.  
        2.  

-   ### Testing :
    1. Tested the 

    2. Tested the 

    3. Tested the 

-   ### Testing :
    1. Made sure when the 

    2. Tested that all the 

    3. Tested the 

    4. Tested the 

-   ### Testing :
    1. Added 

    2. Tested the required 

-   ### Testing :
    1. Tested the 

    2. Made sure the 

    3. Tested the 

-   ### Testing :
    1. Tested trying to 

    2. Tested the 

    3. Tested the 

    4. Tested required 

    5. Tested the 

-   ### Testing :
    1. Tested the 

    2. Tested the 

    3. Tested required 

    4. Tested the Link 

-   ### Testing :
    1. Made sure the 

    2. Tested the 

    3. Tested the 

## Bugs and Fixes

1. After adding the search functionality every time I was searching for anything it was displaying all the products.
	- 1.1 **Fix:** The indendation of both lines (lines followed below) was wrong. I have to remove one indendation level: 
    ```
            queries = Q(name__icontains=query) | Q(description__icontains=query)
            products = products.filter(queries)
    ```

2. After adding the search functionality for product types the server was running fine and not showing any error, but everytime I selecting the product type like "Jets" on the navbar it wasn't showing anything.
    - 2.1 **Fix:** I have to add a Friendly name to models.py so while selecting the type on navbar would retrieve the type name all in lowercase and show the friendly name with the first letter capitalized.

3.
    - 3.1 **Fix:** 

4. 
    - 4.1 **Fix:** 

5. 
    - 5.1: **Fix:** 

6. 
    - 6.1 **Fix:** 

7. 
   - 7.1 **Fix** 

# Deployment

## GitHub Pages 

**Under the repository page:**

    1. Click on Settings 
    2. Scroll down to the "GitHub Pages" section 
    3. Select the Source Branch 
    4. Click Save.

- For this project, I have used the cloud-based IDE [Gitpod](https://gitpod.io/) and [GitHub](http://github.com/) as a free git repository hosting.

    1. I started the project by creating a new Repository on GitHub and loading the [Code Institute Gitpod Template](https://github.com/Code-Institute-Org/gitpod-full-template).

    2. Installed the [Gitpod extension](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/gitpod-dev-environments-i/dodmmooeoklaejobgleioelladacbeki) and on my GitHub repo I clicked on the Gitpod button to create a new Master Workspace on GitPod.

    3. After creating the workspace I developed the website using Gitpod and pushing my commits to GitHub using the following commands:
        - `git add "file-name"` - To add a file for staging.
        - `git commit -m "description-of-update"` - To commit.
        - `git push` - To push my commits to GitHub
        - I have also used extra git commands such as: 
        - `python3 -m http.server` - To run a preview of the website on the browser.
        - `git status` - To display the current state of the working directory and the staging area.

## Heroku

- To deploy the app using Heroku, go through the following steps:

    1. Use pip3 freeze > `requirements.txt` to create a list of the dependencies.

    2. Create a `Procfile` by running this command on the CLI: `echo web: python app.py > Procfile`

    3. Run `git add .`, `git commit -m`, and `git push`, to push the project files to your GitHub repository.

    4. Navigate to Heroku, log in and create a new app by clicking on the 'New' and 'Create New App'. Enter your app name and select your region and create app.

    5. Under the 'Deploy' tab, select 'GitHub - Connect to GitHub'.
    
    6. Enter your repository's name in the input field, and connect once found.

    7. To set your environment variables navigate to the 'Settings' tab and scroll down to 'reveal config vars'

    8. Add the config vars:

    | Key | Value |
    |:---:|:-----:|
    | IP | 0.0.0.0 |
    | PORT | 5000 |
    | MONGO_DBNAME | `<database_name>` |
    | MONGO_URI | `` |
    | SECRET_KEY | `<Your secret Key>` |

    9. Navigate to the 'Deploy' tab. To enable automatic deployment, scroll down to the 'Automatic Deploys' section.

    10. Choose your GitHub branch and enable automatic deployment.


## Running locally

1. Go tho this [project repository](https://github.com/MatSim91/Milestone-Project-3-The-Compendium-of-scientists) in GitHub while signed in in your own GitHub account.
2. Click on the dropdown menu Code option.
3. Click on "Open with GitHub Desktop" to clone and open the repository locally.
4. Click on the "Choose" option and navigate to the local path where you want the cloned repository to be.
5. Click "Clone"

- [Click here](https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/desktop/contributing-and-collaborating-using-github-desktop/adding-and-cloning-repositories) for more cloning GitHub options.

# Credits

- [w](https://) -

- [W](https://) - 

- [C](https://) - 

- [M](https://) - 

- [G](https://) - 

- [G](https://) - 

## Code

- [M](https://) - 

- [w](https://) - 

## Content

-  The  details and descriptions of the products were taken from [Wikipedia](https://www.wikipedia.org/) and from [Revell](https://www.revell.de/).

## Media

-  The media for the  was taken from three different websites that sell Aircraft Models: [Revell](https://www.revell.de/).

## Acknowledgements

-
